Now that we have our basic styling
setup for the whole website,
we are ready to move on to
working with some text.
We've written a lot of styles
that pertain to text, so
let's get some styling in place.
So here in chapter 2,
working with text what we are going to do
is work on just this first
part of the web page.
Just the common part of the webpage.
So your name is your name,
you do something and there's some details
associated with that, and we need
to put a comment in the background.
That is what we're going to be
doing in this next chapter.
And you can refer to this picture
at any point in time along the way.
So we're going to start here
with our beginning codepen.
If you click on the link here at the top.
And you can fork it to your account.
And let's start up here at
the very top of the document.
So this is gonna follow a pattern that
you're going to see over and over and
over again.
The first thing that we always do is
we write our content for the website.
We actually don't care
what this looks like.
We're just going to have this
open to our HTML window and
we are going to write in
here what we want to say.
That is always our first step.
Second step, we mark up this
text once we've actually written
what we want to say with
the appropriate HTML.
And then the third part is
that we style it with CSS.
Now, in reality, you'll wind up going back
and forth a little bit between HTML and
CSS as you do this.
But this is a good basic pattern
that you can use on any website or
anything else you ever build,
write your content first,
then mark it up with HTML,
then style it with CSS.
And by the way, then you add on
all the JavaScript to make it do
anything that's beyond what HTML and
CSS can do.
That is the appropriate way to
put these web pages together.
So if you take a look at
what you've got here.
It just says, hi, my name is, your name.
I, whatever you happen to be doing for
work, you're teaching something,
you're coding something, you are doing
whatever it is that you do for
whomever you're doing it or
perhaps you're looking for a job.
So I'm gonna give you two minutes,
go through here and
fill out this with your own information,
okay?
Just take out the things that are in the
brackets and put in your own information.
Let's take a look then,
just I'm gonna refer here once
again to my design,
that is in the course website.
You can take a look at that at any
point in time to see what it is that we
are going to be coding here.
And let's look at our text again.
So what is the most important
part of all of the stuff that
we have here on the screen?
What would you consider to be the the text
that is the most important and
the biggest focus?
>> The first line?
>> Could be the first line.
Anybody else have any other opinions?
What do you think, Lia?
>> Probably the second line.
>> You like the second line.
Okay, so this depends,
honestly this depends,
what is it that you wanna emphasize
about your particular website.
This doesn't have anything to do
with what is gonna be biggest or
boldest or strongest.
What is the biggest focus of
this particular story and
that particular item we are going
to mark up with, in this case h2.
Now, h2, to me,
it's I teach the web because I think
that's the most important part.
If you prefer to make your first line h2,
that's totally fine too.
I think you can make an argument for that.
Why h2 and not h1?
I'll answer that question for you.
h1 would be the most important
thing on the web page.
And that's actually
the name of the website.
That's not included here
in the introduction.
If you remember looking at
the site at the beginning,
we actually had a logo in
the upper left-hand corner.
That will eventually be marked up with h1.
There's only one h1 on the web page.
So after that, what is the second
most important thing on the page?
There's actually probably a few of those.
This particular item is going to be the
second most important thing on the page.
So I'm gonna mark that up with an h2.
What about the rest of these things here.
What would you call this if you
were writing an English paper.
>> Paragraphs.
>> You'd call them paragraphs.
What do you think?
They look like paragraphs, don't they?
All right, let's mark ' up as such.
This is the way HTML really works.
Hey, look, it's a paragraph.
Let's mark it as a paragraph.
So that's one of the things
that you may wanna do.
Another thing you may wanna do is you may
want to include some links here inside of
your documents.
So for example,
I'm the Director of Learning Design and
Technology at AnnieCannons.
Perhaps I want to link to my employer.
So I may want to put in a link here.
So I'm going to say,
a href="https://annie cannons.org".
And I'm also gonna add
target="_blank" Annie Cannons.
And maybe I want another one of these for
Frontend Masters.
Now, it's also possible that you, maybe
you don't have any links that you want to
include here and that's totally fine too
if you'd prefer not to include links.
You can just hang on a second while
the rest of us put in some links here,
if that's something that we wanna do.
So here, this is Frontend Masters.
All right, now what I always tell
people do as soon as you put in a link,
the next thing you wanna do is test it.
So if you pull this on
over here to the side,
make sure that you click on those links.
Make sure they open in a new window,
make sure they load the webpage that
you're expecting to load, okay?
So yep, there's AnnieCannons, and
when I click on Frontend Masters,
there's Frontend Masters.
So that is all working exactly correctly.
If they're not working correctly,
you may need to go back and
revisit your URLs, okay.
How is everybody doing so far?
Okay, cool, all right.
So now the next thing that I wanna do.
Now that I have my content in place, and
I have the basic markup in place, usually
what we're gonna wanna do in web design
is group all of this stuff together.
So if we're gonna create a section
like this, we're going to want to
include some HTML elements that
go all the way around that thing.
And these days I've moved to
including two of those elements.
So I'll show you how I tend
to mark these things up now.
Let me take my comment out.
I'm gonna add a section with a class
of intro because that's what this is.
And we're using the section element
because it's a section of the webpage.
Here we go, all right?
And if this is looking a little
bit hard to read for you,
one of the nice things that CodePen has,
in the little down arrow here right
next to the HTML, if you click on that,
you can say Format HTML, and
that'll do the indenting for you.
The other nice thing that's there
is the Analyze HTML feature.
If you click on that,
it will do a check for you and
make sure your HTML is
formed in the correct way.
You've not made up a bunch of tags.
You've closed things, that kind of thing.